README.md, before:

# Design Patterns in TypeScript

This project is a personal study of classic design patterns implemented in TypeScript. It aims to deepen understanding of software architecture principles and improve practical coding skills using modern JavaScript/TypeScript features.

## 📚 Patterns Covered

The repository includes implementations and examples of the following patterns (more coming soon):

- Creational Patterns
  - Factory Method
  - Abstract Factory
  - Builder
- Structural Patterns
  - Adapter
  - Bridge
- Behavioral Patterns
  - Chain of Responsibility

Each pattern is isolated in its own directory with code examples and documentation.

## 🚀 Getting Started

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/GabiPeron/design-patterns-ts.git
   ```

2. Install dependencies (if any):
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Explore the examples:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

## 🐳 Running with Docker

You can run this project using Docker with a single command:

```bash
docker compose up
```

> **Note:** This project is for learning purposes only and is not intended for production use.

## 🧠 Author

**Gabriel Peron**  
Software Architect | Full Stack Developer  
[https://gabrielperon.dev](https://gabrielperon.dev)

Commit message:

docs: Update README.md to clarify patterns covered and course reference

README.md, after:

# Design Patterns in TypeScript

This project is a personal study of classic design patterns implemented in TypeScript. It aims to deepen understanding of software architecture principles and improve practical coding skills using modern JavaScript/TypeScript features.

## 📚 Patterns Covered

The repository includes implementations and examples of the following patterns:

- Creational Patterns
  - Factory Method
  - Abstract Factory
  - Builder
- Structural Patterns
  - Adapter
  - Bridge
- Behavioral Patterns
  - Chain of Responsibility

Each pattern is isolated in its own directory with code examples and documentation.

> 📚 This project was developed as part of the [Design Patterns with TypeScript](https://www.udemy.com/course/curso-design-patterns-typescript) course on Udemy.

## 🚀 Getting Started

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/GabiPeron/design-patterns-ts.git
   ```

2. Install dependencies (if any):
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Explore the examples:
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   ```

## 🐳 Running with Docker

You can run this project using Docker with a single command:

```bash
docker compose up
```

> **Note:** This project is for learning purposes only and is not intended for production use.

## 🧠 Author

**Gabriel Peron**  
Software Architect | Full Stack Developer  
[https://gabrielperon.dev](https://gabrielperon.dev)
